# Answer to question 1

**Question 1**

Duolingo is a platform for language learning. When a student is learning a new language, Duolingo wants to recommend increasingly difficult stories to read.
	- How would you measure the difficulty level of a story?
	- Given a story, how would you edit it to make it easier or more difficult?

**Answer**


How would you measure the difficulty level of a story?


1. what type of model? what kind of prediction that model produce ? clustering (unsupervised) , ordinary regression, multi-classification,  

2. What is training data for the model? 

Features: 

A. User-based features: 

data: (user_i, story i)
(user_i, story )

i) Time-based: 

- time spent on the story
- time duration between consecutive clicks to display next dialogue
- total time taken to complete the story/answer the questions


ii) Frequency-based: 

- # clicks on the words 
- number of times the user re-reads the story in a specific duration say 1 hour or 1 day (usually more than one if the story is difficult)
- # of hint clicks

iii) accuracy: 
- # of correct answers
- Percentage correct answers given in first attempt
- whether users complete the questions 


iv) user feedbacks: 
- whether the question is difficult



collects all users interactions per story: : 

story1: 10 users: 10 rows 

time_spent  #clicks    #corrects ansers 
10            20            40%          - user 1 
 
20            10            80%          - user 2


20            10            10%          - user 3




story2: 100 users: 100 rows 

time_spent  #clicks    #corrects ansers 
10            20            40%          - user 1 
 
20            10            80%          - user 2


20            10            10%          - user 3



=> compute statistics of users 

=> avg of each features:  data samples:     story1   avg_time_spent   avg_clics    min_cliks min_correct   max correct ...... 
=> build a baseline model for clustering stories: (Kmeans) 
- iteratively change the number of clusters: (e.g 2-10,)  etc 

=> Investigate each cluster to answer the questions: which difficulty level corresponds to each cluster? (use iii or iv as "proxy labels")



=> Investigate the text-based features of all data points in each cluster


special features: weights of each stories ( come back later to do with this weight)

cluster1: story 1, story 10, story 50 difficult 
cluster 2: story 2, story 3,... story 9, story 20-40  : easy 
cluster 3: : expert 

story1; # sat vocabulary # average length


B. Text-based features: 



i) Vocabulary based
 Assess the frequency and difficulty of words using established language proficiency frameworks like CEFR (Common European Framework of Reference for Languages).
- Frequency of words


ii) Grammar based: 
- # sentences 
- avg (min, max) length of sentences/story
- of verbs in sentences: 
- Identify advanced grammatical constructs (e.g., subjunctive mood, idiomatic expressions).
- # of transitional words within sentences/paragraphs. 
- Use readability formulas (e.g., Flesch-Kincaid for English or equivalent for other languages) tailored to the target language.

iii) topics: 
- Identify topics:  unfamiliar or abstract topics increase difficulty.

iv) Narative: Track elements like the number of characters, timeline jumps, or non-linear storylines that add cognitive load. (chat gpt labor)



***********  Given a story, how would you edit it to make it easier or more difficult?

- Vocabulary: 
 + convert difficult to easy words using synonymous or vice versa

- Grammar: 
 + reduce (increase) # of sentences/paragraph 
 + break down (concat )sentences
 + convert advanced grammatical constructs to easier (difficult ones ) one: e.g: simplify idiomatic expressions

- Topics: go to smaller sub topics that is more popular/advanced 
- Narative: 
 + reduce character/condense dialogues, 
 + remove small events
 + rearrage story lines 


	3.	Provide Contextual Clues:
	•	Add illustrations or annotations to aid understanding.
	•	Explicitly explain cultural or abstract references.


